anonio gz is speaking we want to carry
that live and recent reported attacks
from Southern Lebanon I appeal to all
parties and those who have an influence
over those parties to avoid any further
escalation and spill
over I call for the immediate release of
all Israeli hostages held in
Gaza civilians must be protected at all
times International humanitarian law
must be respect Ed and
upheld about
220,000 Palestinians are now sheltered
in 92 unra facilities across Gaza un
premises and all hospitals schools and
Clinics must never be
targeted un staff are working around the
clock to support the people of Gaza and
I deeply regret that some of my
colleagues have already paid the
ultimate
price crucial life-saving supplies
including fuel food and water must be
allowed into Gaza we need rapid and
unimpeded humanitarian access now I want
to thank Egypt for its constructive
engagement to facilitate humanitarian
access through the Rafa Crossing and to
make the Alish airport available for
critical assistance there is no time to
lose every moment counts thank you
should Israel stop bombing
Gaza okay all right I thought there was
perhaps going to be another speaker but
that's not the case uh the UN Secretary
General Antonio Gutierrez just gave a a
very very short address the headlines
and I I I missed the first line or two
but the headlines um Antonio garez was
calling for the immediate release of
hostages um he was also confirming that
several un staff members have been
killed this in the Gaza Strip we were
saying that earlier this hour and that
uh supplies humanitarian supplies must
be allowed into Gaza now let's turn to
shihab ratansi shab you're live at the
United Nations for us I think you heard
the same thing that I did I missed the
very very top of it so correct me if I
missed something important I probably
did um he was also saying Egypt should
make their Al arish that's in the Sinai
next to Israel their L arish airports
available anything else that stood out
to you
shihab well in fact just as you were
talking to H about the escalation on the
border with Lebanon that's actually what
the Secretary General was speaking about
he said he was in contact with leaders
around in the region and he had several
priorities the first of which was
avoiding what he called spillover and he
said that he'd heard the reports about
what was happening at the border with
Lebanon and he called on all parties to
uh to work against escalation so it was
precisely what you were talking about
this news of paragliders apparently now
being used and then as you said he
called for the immediate release of
Israeli hostages he says civilians
should never be targeted international
law should be upheld un locations not
targeted and and this is interesting
actually he said that supplies of food
and water should be entered should be
allowed into Gaza now and then he
thanked Egypt now that's different
because on M day when we heard from the
UN Secretary General he he mely said
that he was distressed by news of the of
the siege and he came under a great deal
of criticism actually certainly from the
Press Corp by his usage of the word
distress as opposed to condemn or or or
any kind of any exhortation on Israel
not to inflict a Siege on Gaza given
that it is in such flagrant violation of
international law of of the laws of
collective punishment of proportionality
I mean you know if you can't condemn
that if you can't tell Israel not to do
that then what can you do at the United
Nations which is supposed to be
upholding International humanitarian law
the Geneva conventions un Security
Council resolutions and so on so at the
very least then here this time he did
call on Israel to allow food and water
into to Gaza but he he said so without
any using any words that he's used in
the past about Palestinian actions
condemnation and so on he simply said
that that that the the Border must be or
the frontier must be opened he said that
un locations should never been targeted
as you've been reporting we already know
18 un locations have already been
targeted and these are shelters these
are the schools that we keep hearing
about where you know tens of thousands
of people are Sheltering having been
displaced as often is the case Israel is
apparently targeting those and several
have been hit uh we we know that already
we also know that nine un staff have
been killed actually just in the last
hour in addition we had an update from
the international Federation of the Red
Cross and red crescent who said that 10
red oh no five red crescent members had
been killed because the ambulances that
they were traveling in were targeted by
the Israelis in addition uh we
understand that the headquarters of the
red crescent in Gaza has been bombed by
the Israelis shab I wonder if you can
pull back the curtain a little bit on on
this speech um I found out only a short
while ago that we were expecting a
statement by Gutierrez um
often we get a little bit more notice
for these things and frankly I'm
surprised at how short the speech was I
assume that perhaps the UN Secretary
General had prepared a a broader
statement laying out a position about
the uh the uh Gaza Israel war that
that's not the case so my question is um
do you know why we found out at such
short notice do you know what triggered
the speech and is there anything else
you know about the you about gutierrez's
broader position on this that you can
bring to
us
well we we did hear we did get noticed
with a couple of hours actually but he
was working on the speech till the very
last moment he was notably about 15 15
minutes late but uh but but we had heard
you know this morning that that he would
be making a statement it was short by
his standards it also you know was was
low on the usual calls for you know of
condemnation or or of anything like that
this was you know very simp this is
simply about opening what what would
seem obvious from a un Secretary General
which is you cannot collectively punish
an entire population of civilians and
restrict food and water which you know
would seem primery the obvious thing for
the Secretary General who's supposed to
be upholding International humanitarian
law to say but actually even then I have
to say I was a bit surprised that he he
went as far as he did for the last day
or two it's actually been members of
other un agencies who've been calling
for a total ceasefire the UN Secretary
General on Monday notably did not call
for a total ceasefire he only called on
Hamas to cease its military activities
but he said that the Israelis could
continue theirs as long as it was within
International humanitarian law now we're
seeing the spokesperson for the UN
Secretary General speaking I'm sure
he'll be asked a number of these
questions now there all right shab shab
rany thank you very much for your
reporting from un headquarters there